Okay, so it's time for a challenge.
This is the second challenge
with dictionaries.
Now we've mentioned that the data for
this adventure game could be
organized in many different ways.
And we've created another way for
you here in this code.
So your mission,
if you chose to accept it.
Is to change the code
below to make it work.
Now, the code that is below is
the complete program from the last video,
the adventure game but
with the location's dictionary modified so
that everything is in a single dictionary.
So what your job here if the challenge
is to fix it ANd we'll go down and
have a look at the code, and
you'll notice there are some errors here.
There's errors there
that you'll need to fix.
So you'll need to get this working because
we've not got our descriptions for
the various locations, nox, x, etc.
All in the one sort of master dictionary.
So that's your goal.
Now the thing to remember with this
challenge is there's not a lot of code you
need to change.
In fact you should only have to make
changes to just four lines of code to
get this to work.
Now check any of your warnings carefully
if you're using IntelliJ here.
And don't worry if all four
changes give you the same warning.
We will explain why, in the solution.
I'm gonna ask you to pause the video now,
go away and
see if you can solve this challenge.
Once you're ready to come back and
see the solution, click play and
I'll be here showing you how to do it.
Okay so,
hopefully you managed to solve this.
So, let's go through and
show you our solution, and
how we would go about fixing this.
So the first thing we need to change here,
the error is showing on line 43.
So, clearly the problem there is it's
trying to use the exits dictionary,
which no longer exists.
So, we need to change the code.
To use our master dictionary.
So what need to do there is we still
need to join it, so availableExits,
that first part is correct but the join
now is not exits rather it's on locations.
So we type locations[loc] but
then We need to put
exits to use the exits component
of the dictionary, and dot keys.
So that's the first change,
pretty simple change as you can see.
So we're looking up the key exits and
grabbing the keys for those.
Which is now, of course,
all enclosed in one master dictionary.
Of which we've got
subdictionaries built in.
So we've still got a room location,
so you can see there,
the number equated to each room,
but we've now got two entries.
Before we had a single dictionary.
We've got D E S C, which is
the description for the location and
also got exits Which is our
valid exit in the named exits.
So we've separated the three variables
that we had, three separate dictionaries
and we put those dictionaries
into this one master dictionary.
So each location,
in essence, has now We got three
dictionaries as you can see there.
So it's a little bit confusing.
So we got one master as you can see there
which contains the description, the exits
and the main exits and of course exits and
main exits are themselves dictionaries.
So there's three dictionaries there in
total as we can see effectively for
each location.
So a little bit confusing.
But that's the gist of it anyway.
OK, so that was the first fix, so
now what we're doing is we're correctly
looking up lock, which is finding
the relevant location number,
then we're looking up the exits, so
we're using that lookup there to find that
particular dictionary, then using the dot
keys to get all the keys that exist for
that particular entry
This case which is exits.
So that's the first fix, so
I'll just come back here again,
it's got another problem there,
print locations, loc isn't going to work.
What we need to do is also
use the descriptions.
We need to look that up to make sure
we're grabbing it from the right spot.
So I'd need to use that
key to retrieve it, so
to do that, we just put, as you can see.
And then that will now correctly find
us the description for the location.
So that's two fixes,
now these errors here on line 50 and
51 also have to be fixed, and in the first
one you'll probably guess that because
it's very similar to what we did on line
43, so we're no longer using the Exits
dictionary as a separate variable,
it's now part of our master dictionary So
to fix that,
we'll change that to locations.
Loc and then it's going to be exits.
Like so.
And
that's now grabbing the exits dictionary
and then taking a copy of that.
And likewise, on the next line, you can
probably get that with named exits.
We no longer have a separate variable for
that.
So we need to fix that as well.
So we're going to leave name exits in
because we're gonna use that part of it.
But we're going to make it locations lock,
and
then it's going to be,
named exits, like so.
We can get rid of the rest
of that line now.
And of course I made a typo there so
that shouldn't be in there.
Let's fix that up.
So that should now be it.
That should be all we need to run this.
So let's just run it and
make sure it works.
We correctly not getting our numbers for
the available exits so that's good,
that part's working.
Then we can type go west, you're at
the top of a hill, we can go type in road.
Can't go in that direction,
which is correct because of where we are,
we can go north You're in the forest,
control, type in road again.
You are standing at the end of a road
before a small brick building.
We should be able to enter hill.
You are at the top of a hill.
And you can see the available
exits are working.
Quit out of that.
You are sitting at
a computer learning python.
I'm going to close this down again.
And we could also put in here,
if we wanted to,
plus just a space there if we wanted to.
So let me run it.
We've now got that extra space there.
So that's the challenge.
Clean up the errors now.
The lint checker in IntelliJ is
complaining, and PyCharm will do the same.
It's gonna show a warning.
So if we come over here and select them,
expected type int matching generic types.
And we'll just click on that to
see which line it's talking about.
You can see it's line 43.
I should put an arrow fix in
there to fix it up, like so.
And the other arrows relate to the two
other lines that we actually worked on.
And you can see it's having the same
problems as you can see there.
So these are the four lines that
we've modified that Intelliga is
saying coming up with a problem,
potentially a problem showing a warning.
So the problem is it's complaining that it
expected an int, but got a string instead.
So generally speaking, the lint checker,
and that's what this process is,
does a really good job of checking
your code as you type it.
But that said, it's not perfect.
So the hint does say to press control F1,
command F1 on a Mac.
And we get the full message, and
basically due to dynamic dispatch and
duck typing, This is possible in
a limited, but useful, number of cases.
Now [LAUGH] that's a bit
of a cryptic message and
I'll just bring that up
on the screen again.
Again, due to dynamic dispatch and duck
typing, this is possible in a limited but
useful number of cases.
But as it turns out,
this is one of those useful cases.
Nesting dictionaries, as we've done
here for the locations dictionary.
Is quite advanced.
So, congratulations if you've
worked out the solution.
And, because we're using string keys,
lint's finding it hard to cope.
Now, obviously the program runs, so
the path in itself is quite
happy with the syntax.
So, it's more the lint checker here.
Now incidentally, the reference
to duck typing Is the path and
why of doing things.
As far as path is concerned, if it
quacks like a duck, then it is a duck.
So in other words,
since path is dynamically typed,
then we said that before, and it's more
interested in the behavior of things
than actually than being
declared As a particular type.
And that's a good thing.
Because, of course,
there's no type declarations in path.
So the bottom line is that although
the IntelliJ checker expects named exits,
in this case, to be an integer index.
And I'm talking about this part, here.
For example, on line 51.
So although it's expecting that and
preferring that to be an integer index,
Python itself knows that
the location's like this component.
It knows that that's a dictionary and
it's happy to accept a string key into
it because of the way we've defined it.
So this is one of those sort of relatively
rare cases, where the checker isn't really
right in its explanations or when it's
telling us that we've got something wrong.
There isn't a problem with the way
we've developed the code here.
All right, so that's it.
We're finally now done with dictionaries,
and again, congratulations if you did
figure this out because it's getting
to be quite advanced code figuring out
solutions to dictionaries within
dictionaries as we've actually got here.
So we're going to move on
from dictionaries now.
In the next video we're
going to start work on sets.
So, see you in that next video.